"Coordination, total length of the interdependent coordination is the samsara, how it continues.
And the center-dependent coordination, the total interdependent coordination, I told yesterday to
you,
can be summarized, can understand it within the contracts of the first true, noble truth,
suffering noble truth and cause of suffering truth. And that is samsara.
This is also an elaborate way, the gracious teacher Buddha explained as 12 interdependent
coordinate links.
I will have to reverse that. I will have to stop that chain, continue with the spiral.
Then we have to follow the path. And that is known as path truth. Path truth.
Path truth will bring the cessation truth, which is also known as the enlightenment series in Mahay
ana.
Absolute enlightenment that will bring by following the path.
In the path, again, as the gracious teacher Buddha said, "O monks, there is the Eightfold Noble
Path
to reverse the cause of suffering and suffering truth. There is the Eightfold Noble Paths that you
can follow."
So this Eightfold Noble Path is explained here. According again, these Eightfold Noble Paths,
seven instrumentals of the enlightenment is not something that only we practice on the first bhumi
and the rest of the paths. But it is started day one with practices.
When you reach according, when you reach to the second bhumi on the meditation path,
when you begin the meditation path in the teaching set, that time the Eightfold Noble Path becomes
so beautiful, so strong, so perfect. That time it becomes perfect.
And before that, we want to be perfect because due to the dualities and as well as obscurations
and our habit patterns, we are kind of most jiggly, jiggly. But still, we put that joyful effort,
courage, tormentment, all the tools that the Buddha taught and the great master lay out,
and we put that. It will make us always joyful, always happy, peaceful. It's not something
struggling, but it is part of joy, part of peace, part of excitement and adventures.
It is upon us, it is beautiful, it is a move forward. But however, again, when we reach
to the what this is called, with this beautiful motivation, with that quality, we move forward
continually and then we reach past bhumi. Past bhumi time, as I said in the great master's,
Nagarjuna in everyone's day, that time the seven instrumentals of the books of the enlightenment
will become so strong, so perfect. That means perfect. That time will become perfect.
And now, we have that perfect of the seven instrumentals, mentors so beautifully,
and then we continually apply and then reach to the second bhumi.
Twenty second bhumi we reach, and that time, now we begin to shine the earth, noble power,
so beautifully, so perfectly. That time. It is already started. They want new practices,
but this time become seen as perfect. So that's the general overview of this practice of the
earth, noble power. And now, we go to the earth, noble power itself, as great master said,
and as the Muharramuddhi's teachings. Great master Nagarjuna said, as well as great master
Muharramuddhi's things. So first is, again, this nabhupadam is already in the text,
in the original text, but however, again, our talk is. So first is according here, what is listed,
according here, the great master Nagarjuna listed, perfect, positive, perfect. Second,
again, this perfect, perfect, we're going to apply to everyone, everyone, so perfect.
Second, it's perfect, livelihood. Third is, or again, we put that in that way.
Perfect view, perfect livelihood, perfect effort, perfect mindfulness, and perfect concentration,
perfect action, and perfect understanding. These edges are known as the perfect
perfect, perfect of the path of nobleman, nobleman. You can add this path of nobleman to everyone.
For example, perfect will is the path of nobleman. Perfect living who is path of nobleman.
Perfect effort, your effort is path of nobleman, and so on, and that, and that's known as the
perfect nobleman. And now with this, first is will, the perfect will. Will is as
a great and thinking particular said many times, and I said, and you know now, perfect will
is so important for us or for practitioners. Will is that what we're going to capture.
The will is that what we're going to realize it. When we talk about the realization,
it's talking about will. That is what it is. Realization, when we talk about realization,
is will. So therefore, will is so important. Will is like I, looking to our directions,
looking to the behind, looking to the around, so that we will be continually stay in the clear,
brilliant light, so not darkness, kind of carried away and become the obstacles. We have the
perfect
will. It will be more brightly brilliant as great master Nairajuna said in this teaching,
we will move from light to light. It is moving of the light. Now, what is will? Will can be,
and I mean it's so beautiful things, so many things, beautiful things, but every summarize
all wills, it can be will in truth. This is known as the will of the vast understanding or the will
of the understander of the vastness of the relative truth, will of the understander of the profound
of the absolute truth. This can be summarized all. So that means these two wills. Two wills.
And this time, what is for our practical to understand of the will? It is the teaching,
the practice that you're doing that have to understand. Bring that will clearly as it is.
It is a simple way to tell the path. We have to know the path. We have to know the bermis and what
our path, what our bermis, the end of all the teachings, what we went through. I mean, it's
all is related to the most relative truths, but they're so important to understand because it
will make us so pure, so simple, so beautiful, so perfect, perfect. Without that, we won't really
develop in a way to go discover our beautiful nature. Habitat pattern is continuing. The grasping
is continuing. Even we have the perfect beautiful will of the understander of the relative truth,
the teaching of the Buddha. But still there is so many, this highness, as I said, this six of five,
those obscurations that who will robs our virtues that great master said. There is, therefore,
vigilantly, joyfully keeping the will. That is that. To make a more detailed way to understanding
will is possible. Will is a relative truth to understand beautifully. And then along with that
contrast in externally, such as know that what is 10 virtues, what is non-unvirtues. I mean,
understand all those things beautifully, exactly as it is, knowing known as the vastness of
knowledge
of the relative truths. Once you have that understanding, then explore the will, will
of the absolute truths as we all learned from the jockey teachings of Mahamudra teachings,
Madhima teachings. That is the will. That is will. Understand, exactly that realization.
Breathe up again, applying with the relative truth instructions. All that shouldn't forget.
Instructions are needed. Needed because we are struggling. We are here, we live
burdened and sorrowed by the habit patterns. Habit patterns is not just beginning these
life times, but in the biggest time, we carry the habit patterns one after another. And this time,
this life, we added so many things also. Plus, so many habit patterns, our own habit patterns,
traditional habit patterns, believe in the different things, this and that habit patterns
is really all noted. And therefore, to keep up that all the instructions perfectly and release
and liberated that, bring up the some light, the brilliant sky will of the absolute truth
in our heart and mind, merge that realization as it merge, as it appears externally and as
your nature is that. As the jockey teaching said, that is the will. Now will is firm. When you have
the perfect solid beautiful unheavened will, the practice moves so beautifully, practice moves so
nice. We're not going to jiggling here, hesitating in a doubt and hesitate and trembling all the
time
and kind of shaped by by the sermon and discursive port, this and that, that might be, this might
be,
this is, then I'm all disturbing. We have, this is what we have to have the beautiful rules. Once
we have that beautiful will, and then what will be conduct level, what we're going to do? And then
he and the teaching said, part of the livelihoods, part of the livelihood is there as in the
teaching
said, and you you hear it said, in the food level, there's a variety of things we can understand,
all the different things, but in the food level, we take the food as medicines, medicines, and we
should not also have food that is kind of, you know, all the negative bits, loudness, and many of
your
you are vegetarians, which is wonderful, really beautiful. Vegetarian is beautiful, terrible care,
and livelihood that's not harming to anyone. Anyone is something that clean, pure, and then also
use with us medicines and exactly that. I have kind of more loudness and what Buddha taught,
Buddha taught, not to extreme, not to loudness, and kind of simple, beautiful, but joy and peace
and happiness, and rewarding to ourselves that always rewarding us joy, peace, happy, satisfaction,
and we have that, we are staying beautiful lives, that is beautiful lives, peaceful life, happy
lives,
that is what it is. So that is really about the, oh sorry, really about the livelihoods,
and the next one is the effort. Effort is then same thing as in the six parameters.
What is joyful effort? Joyful effort is vital and essential to fulfill our goals,
goal of the practice, goal of realizations, great goals, and not disturbed by laziness.
Laziness, laziness is opposite, laziness is distract us, laziness pull down, laziness
can come many different ways, sometimes very naive ways, sometimes can come very kind of
appealing, sometimes can come instrumentally kind of instructing somebody, looks like kind of,
and it's all different ways come. It's display of the conception, discursive thoughts, bring up the
joyful effort, keep the wheels strongly to the close to your heart, heart and carry on, move on,
that is, and then we mentioned many times and you know already joyful effort already, and to keep
the
instructions perfectly beautiful as Buddha told in this teaching said many times, what is the
mindfulness? Mindfulness is so important. Mindfulness is intelligence, mindfulness is thoughtful,
mindful, breathing, alertness, so in remembering instructions, remember the beliefs, not let that
goal, doubt, doubt by the holy thought and as well as habit patterns and discursive
busyness, stressful, stressful, anxiety kind of carried away there and they dimmed our mindfulness
and we lost the identity of our practices. If that happened then obstacle, that's called obstacle,
it's nothing than this, that is obstacles. Obstacles can come many different ways,
preventing that, this, so therefore again keep up the mindfulness. That's one is concentration,
that means again we were going through trials in this teaching already and you know meditating,
samadhi, all the sudden meditation, there's two things, is vipassana and shamatha. What are you
going to meditate with? You're going to meditate with vu that you learned, particularly absolute
truth, absolute truth of vu, zokin vu, mahamudra vu, the mademaka vu, that is you're going to kill.
Who is going to kill this vu? Our mind, vu is not object, vu is our mind. Discovering that
knowledge, that wisdom, that affinity, that openness of our own nature as it is, that is known as
the vu and that maintained by then. That's samadhi, all maintained by the shamatha,
maintained by the vipassana, all in the dokchi teaching always the great master said
and he is using of the vipassana to meditate, inseparable, so keep that. How are we going to
keep that? With joy, with joy for effort, with mindfulness. Mindfulness, all those visual
ingredients
blend in, it's not just they are different locations and different tools that bring all
in one packet, one status, fuse that up. That's how we glorify, we meditate for, beautify
our life and our spiritual practices. And then next one is activities, perfect activities.
Activity is then again in this teaching, we said many times, activities that do the perfect
activities, that do the perfect activities of the ten virtues. If we simplify ten virtues,
it's perfect activities. If we do unten virtues or the non-ten virtues, that is not perfect
activities.
So therefore again, the greatest teacher, Buddha and the great master Nagarjuna, everyone
highlighted
that, made so beautiful manual, beautiful road signs, like this, what is, what is, so we don't
have to stay in the dark of this mind, what could be this, so clearly collected. Ten virtues is
then,
we listed in this, ten other virtues also listed, we went through those in this teaching and you
know
that, that activity, if we do this, this is activity, unten virtues is then bad activities,
not perfect activities. And during the ten activities, beautiful activities, and then
we can say, experiment the practices, among those possibly, such as, as, generosity, morality,
patience, those are the virtues, those are the beautiful activities, that we can do by our
physical, our verbally, in our mind, that as subject and object levels is not absolute truth,
it is something that we can deal in the mundane mode, that, that is the perfect activities,
and then next one is perfect, understands, when you have the perfectly understand the virtues,
perfectly understand all of these things, then also you bring that as a verbal communicative
levels to yourself, reminded to yourself, in a way speaking to yourself, what is what, what is what
,
speaking to, and also those who are interested, who like to know those, verbally communicating,
making an integral, bring up that understanding, that is known as perfect understanding, perfect
understanding, as you understand, you sharing that, you understand, as you understanding,
you deepen in that practices, that is known as perfect understanding. This, so this earth, noble
path, are the path, that we like to make the nobles, novelities, this is the path, this is the
instrumentals, that will make novel, whoever they are, whether they are men or women or animals,
anyone, they are become novelty monks, that is therefore, it is called novel, novels, novels,
and this again is, can summarize this again, this, this earth, noble path can summarize within the
three extra ordinary tening practices. First is, for example, wool, and as well as perfect
understanding, is western, western practices, and then, livelihood, effort, and perfect activities,
activities, are moralities, ethics, and then, concentrating is, concentricious, or some others,
and then joyful effort is supported to all of them, all of those things, so this is again, very
beautiful, essential light, and structures of, of the three extra ordinary teaching,
and that Buddha teaching, naturally, is not deviated, deviated, deviated, it's deviating
teachings, all brains target, meaning put perfectly, suits to the, to discover truth,
natural as the, what is truth? Truth is natural, it's not something else, there is sitting truth
behind the scene, truth is natural, it's truth, exactly as it is, in the relative level,
absolute level, in the relative, absolute level, it's not two separate groups,
eastern and western, it's the same, discover it is exactly natural, we think that, and that is
known
as the practice, that is known as the truth, or natural, and here is it, and here, great
mouse Nagarjuna said, if, if you want to be, if you want to be kind of tranquil at a great peaceful
status, peaceful status, then you must meditate practicing on this, practice on this,
practice on this, practice on this, and that will bring the, the realization of the,
the peace, the nirvana of the enlightenment status.
And the next one.